COMPULSORY TASK 3
          
1. What is plagiarism? 
"A thief in literature; one who steals the thoughts or writings of another." defined by Samuel Johnson's dictionary in 1755.1
Theft is a common term to describe plagiarism. An individual's intellect is considered property, and any other claiming it as their own is a form of theft. 2


2. What are the four different types of plagiarism?
i) Paying someone to do your work, whether through a friend, company, or family member, is a form of plagiarism.
E.g., Services to have your essays written for you are rising within academic institutions. 
ii) Referencing a source with multiple authors but only including one and leaving out the rest is a form of plagiarism.
iii) Copying a segment of text and changing words or the order of the sentence to "reclaim it as their own" is a form of plagiarism.
iiii) Take an entire piece of work, e.g., a published dissertation and put your name as the author.

3.  
To write well, you must use sources and learn how to use sources correctly. For example, just if you were to bake a cake but don't have all the ingredients, you need all the ingredients to make a good cake, so you need to go to the grocery store, but we do not just walk out of the store with the items, there is a process to queue up at the till have the items scanned, pay for the item and receive a receipt to prove you purchased the item you are leaving the store with. The same logic applies to plagiarism.
To use the sources, we must reference them correctly. The four widely-used referencing styles are MLA, APA, Harvard System and MHRA. 3
It is essential to plan when referencing. The research process must involve noting down all sources; whether or not they will be used within your writing; when it comes to adding the references, you will have them all ready to refer to and not strings of texts with no sources, which can easily lead to plagiarism due to lack of organisation during the research stage.




1 Lynch, J. (2006) Writing-world. Available at: https://www.writing-world.com/rights/lynch.shtml (Accessed: December 6, 2022). 

2 Pecorari, D. (2015) Academic writing and plagiarism: A linguistic analysis. London: Bloomsbury Academic an imprint of Bloomsbury Publishing. 

3 MLA, APA, Harvard or MHRA? (no date) The Royal Literary Fund. Available at: https://www.rlf.org.uk/resources/mla-apa-harvard-or-mhra/#:~:text=There%20are%20four%20widely-used,Modern%20Humanities%20Research%20Association)%20system. (Accessed: December 6, 2022). 
